theory/Links_SoundPhysics.md, before:

# The physics of sound and music

1. [Science Sauce: Alex Nixon | Sound: Wavelength, Frequency and Amplitude (video) | 2018](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TsQL-sXZOLc)
   - A short introduction

1. [Pressbooks: David Abbott | Understanding Sound](https://pressbooks.pub/sound/)
   - In my view this is an excellent book. It consists of 48 web pages / chapers and has a very wide coverage. Some of the web pages can be read in 5-10 minutes although others may take longer to understand if you are unfamiliar with the concepts. I feel you don't need to read every page... you may be able to skip to the page of interest.
   - This book is free. It is open copyright (CC-BY).
   - An introduction to the physics of sound originally developed for students at Buffalo State College
   - This book is written for high school and college students who do not have much background in science or math. The book deliberately avoids incorporating basic physics topics (like force, energy and pressure) beyond what is absolutely needed for the book. The math is mostly at the 8th grade level- algebra, graph reading, ratio and proportion. There’s no calculus. There’s no trigonometry. The hardest math (logs and roots) is in the sections on decibels and musical intervals. (These sections can be skipped without disrupting the flow of the book).
   - A musical background is not required to understand this book, but it helps. Musicians have valuable experiences- producing sound, listening carefully to sound and (perhaps) reading music. I’ve brought in musical topics in the main text to help those with a musical background understand the material better.

1. [Eastern Illinois University: Doug Davis | Excursions in Physics: PHY 3050: Summer 2005: General Course Calendar](https://ux1.eiu.edu/~cfadd/3050/Ch01Intro/Sched.html)
   - [Chapter 11; Waves](https://ux1.eiu.edu/~cfadd/3050/Ch11Waves/ToC.html)
   - [Chapter 12: Sound and Music](https://ux1.eiu.edu/~cfadd/3050/Ch12Sound/ToC.html)

1. [Indiana University: Jacobs School of Music: Jeffrey Hass | Introduction to Computer Music](https://cmtext.indiana.edu/toc.php)
   - Click on "1. Acoustics" to see the sub-topics
   - [Chapter One: An Acoustics Primer: 7. What is amplitude? | Page 6](https://cmtext.indiana.edu/acoustics/chapter1_amplitude6.php)
   - [Chapter One: An Acoustics Primer: 8. What are wave shapes and spectral content? | Page 2](https://cmtext.indiana.edu/acoustics/chapter1_shape2.php)


## Sine / sinusoidal (& cosine) waves

1. [Learnability | Sine Wave | Simple Explanation on a Giant or Ferris Wheel (video) | Trigonometry | 2020](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OfuyQV4SN9c)

1. [Better Explained: Kalid Azad | Intuitive Understanding of Sine Waves](https://betterexplained.com/articles/intuitive-understanding-of-sine-waves/)

1. [Akash Murthy | Digital Audio - Origins of the Sine Wave (playlist) | 2020](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLbqhA-NKGP6DxFIF7K5AhBY9kawUOOM0H)
   - The first 5 videos deal with maths equations, however the 6th (final) video is a more general discussion
   - Trigonometric Functions - Origins of the Sine Wave
   - Unit circles - Origins of the Sine Wave
   - Degree vs Radian - Origins of the Sine Wave
   - Sine Function Over Time - Origins of the Sine Wave
   - Properties of Sinusoids - Origins of the Sine Wave
   - Understanding Sinusoidal Motion - Origins of the Sine Wave


### Create any sound by adding sine waves

1. [Posy | Every sound is SINE (video) | 2021](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UrBZsUBibtk)
   - You can create any sound by adding sine waves (and changing their level/volume/envelope with time)

1. AwesomeAcoustics en Español | c.2015-2017
   - [07 The sine wave and sum of waves (interference) (video)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mtDlA66pMAs)
     * The sine wave
     * Constructive and destructive interference
   - [08 Additive synthesis: building sounds with sine waves (video)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fwtA2-Nhixw)
     * Fourier series
     * Synthesising the sound of an oboe


## Standing waves

1. [Khan Academy Physics | Standing waves on strings | Physics (video) | 2016](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gT0IqL1dyyk)
   - Applies to stringed instruments

1. [Professor Dave Explains | Standing Waves and Harmonics (video) | 2017](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0Rfushlee0U)
   - Applies to stringed instruments

1. [Chegg | Introduction to Superposition and Standing Waves | Physics (video) | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TsdIhQHaMbY)
   - Applies to air-columns, i.e. organ pipes and many wind instruments

1. The Physics Classroom | 2023
   - [What is a Standing Wave? (video)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aTaT1orpHg8)
   - [Harmonic Frequencies and Standing Waves (video)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Okjtc1UdM6U)


## String vibration

1. [StudySmarter | Vibrating String](https://www.studysmarter.co.uk/explanations/physics/waves-physics/vibrating-string/)
   - A vibrating string in physics refers to a string's back-and-forth motion caused by an initial displacement from its equilibrium position, where it seeks to return but overshoots due to accumulated momentum.
   - The causes of string vibration involve an energy transfer and wave motion initiated by displacing a string from its equilibrium position. The string vibrates until all the initial provided energy is dissipated, and its frequency depends on its tension, length, and mass.
   - When a string vibrates, it creates a transverse wave with the string's displacement being perpendicular to the wave's motion. The speed of the wave depends on the tension and linear density of the string. This displacement and subsequent reflection of waves create standing wave patterns known as modes of vibrations.
   - The mathematical interpretation of vibrating strings... is characterized by standing waves that represent the harmonic frequencies of the string, known as the modes of vibration or harmonics.
   - Vibrating strings have numerous real-world applications, including producing sound in stringed instruments...

1. [University NSW: School of Physics: Joe Wolfe | Music Acoustics: Strings, standing waves and harmonics](https://www.phys.unsw.edu.au/jw/strings.html)
   - The pitch of a note is determined by how rapidly the string vibrates. This depends on four things:
     1. Thicker, more massive strings vibrate more slowly.
     1. The frequency increases with the tension in the string.
     1. The length of the string that is free to vibrate is also important.
     1. You can also change the pitch by changing the mode of vibration [harmonics]
   - From the equations:
     * f  = v/λ
     * λ₁ = 2L (hence f₁ = v/2L)
     * v  = √(F/μ)  where μ  = M/L and F is the tension force applied to the string
     * Note that variable *v* is the speed of the wave along the string (not the speed of sound).
   - We can derive the equations:
     * fₙ = (n/2L)√(F/μ) = (n/2L)√(FL/M) = (n/2)√(F/LM)
     * Hence, f₁ = ½√(F/LM)
     * Hence, F  = 4f₁²LM

1. [Wikipedia | String vibration](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/String_vibration)


## Air column vibrations

1. [ScienceFlip | Waves and Thermodynamics](https://www.scienceflip.com.au/subjects/physics/wavesandthermodynamics/)
   - [Transverse and Longitudinal Waves – Watch](https://www.scienceflip.com.au/subjects/physics/wavesandthermodynamics/watch2/)
     * [Bozeman Science | Transverse and Longitudinal Waves (video) | 2015](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pqJzn8Y1HFw)
   - [Standing Waves in Air Columns – Watch](https://www.scienceflip.com.au/subjects/physics/wavesandthermodynamics/watch21/)
     * [James Lincoln | Tube Resonance - Standing Sound Waves (video) | 2014](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bHdHaYNX4Tk)

1. [Pressbooks: David Abbott | Understanding Sound: Vibrating air columns](https://pressbooks.pub/sound/chapter/vibrating-air-columns/)

1. [University of Sydney: School of Physics: Ian Cooper | Sound Waves in Air](https://d-arora.github.io/VisualPhysics/mod31/m31_pipesA.htm)

1. [The Physics Classroom: Physics Tutorial: Sound Waves and Music](https://www.physicsclassroom.com/class/sound)
   - [Open-End Air Columns](https://www.physicsclassroom.com/class/sound/Lesson-5/Open-End-Air-Columns)
   - [Closed-End Air Columns](https://www.physicsclassroom.com/class/sound/Lesson-5/Closed-End-Air-Columns)

1. [University NSW: School of Physics: Joe Wolfe | Flute acoustics: an introduction to how a flute works](https://www.phys.unsw.edu.au/jw/fluteacoustics.html)


## Why does the same note-pitch sound different when played on a different musical instrument?

1. [Audio University: Kyle Mathias | Why Do Instruments Sound Different? | 2022](https://audiouniversityonline.com/why-do-instruments-sound-different/)
   - The Harmonic Character Of The Instrument (timbre).
   - The Envelope Of The Instrument: That is, the level variation of a note or chord over time. It is divided into three parts: Attack, Sustain, and Decay.
   - [Audio University | Why Do Instruments Sound Different? (w/ Visual Demonstrations!) (video) | 2022](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GLnrysQ1Erg)

Commit message:

Add links to Dan Russell's animations

theory/Links_SoundPhysics.md, after:

# The physics of sound and music

1. [Science Sauce: Alex Nixon | Sound: Wavelength, Frequency and Amplitude (video) | 2018](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TsQL-sXZOLc)
   - A short introduction

1. [Pressbooks: David Abbott | Understanding Sound](https://pressbooks.pub/sound/)
   - In my view this is an excellent book. It consists of 48 web pages / chapers and has a very wide coverage. Some of the web pages can be read in 5-10 minutes although others may take longer to understand if you are unfamiliar with the concepts. I feel you don't need to read every page... you may be able to skip to the page of interest.
   - This book is free. It is open copyright (CC-BY).
   - An introduction to the physics of sound originally developed for students at Buffalo State College
   - This book is written for high school and college students who do not have much background in science or math. The book deliberately avoids incorporating basic physics topics (like force, energy and pressure) beyond what is absolutely needed for the book. The math is mostly at the 8th grade level- algebra, graph reading, ratio and proportion. There’s no calculus. There’s no trigonometry. The hardest math (logs and roots) is in the sections on decibels and musical intervals. (These sections can be skipped without disrupting the flow of the book).
   - A musical background is not required to understand this book, but it helps. Musicians have valuable experiences- producing sound, listening carefully to sound and (perhaps) reading music. I’ve brought in musical topics in the main text to help those with a musical background understand the material better.

1. [Eastern Illinois University: Doug Davis | Excursions in Physics: PHY 3050: Summer 2005: General Course Calendar](https://ux1.eiu.edu/~cfadd/3050/Ch01Intro/Sched.html)
   - [Chapter 11; Waves](https://ux1.eiu.edu/~cfadd/3050/Ch11Waves/ToC.html)
   - [Chapter 12: Sound and Music](https://ux1.eiu.edu/~cfadd/3050/Ch12Sound/ToC.html)

1. [Indiana University: Jacobs School of Music: Jeffrey Hass | Introduction to Computer Music](https://cmtext.indiana.edu/toc.php)
   - Click on "1. Acoustics" to see the sub-topics
   - [Chapter One: An Acoustics Primer: 7. What is amplitude? | Page 6](https://cmtext.indiana.edu/acoustics/chapter1_amplitude6.php)
   - [Chapter One: An Acoustics Primer: 8. What are wave shapes and spectral content? | Page 2](https://cmtext.indiana.edu/acoustics/chapter1_shape2.php)


## Sine / sinusoidal (& cosine) waves

1. [Learnability | Sine Wave | Simple Explanation on a Giant or Ferris Wheel (video) | Trigonometry | 2020](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OfuyQV4SN9c)

1. [Better Explained: Kalid Azad | Intuitive Understanding of Sine Waves](https://betterexplained.com/articles/intuitive-understanding-of-sine-waves/)

1. [Akash Murthy | Digital Audio - Origins of the Sine Wave (playlist) | 2020](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLbqhA-NKGP6DxFIF7K5AhBY9kawUOOM0H)
   - The first 5 videos deal with maths equations, however the 6th (final) video is a more general discussion
   - Trigonometric Functions - Origins of the Sine Wave
   - Unit circles - Origins of the Sine Wave
   - Degree vs Radian - Origins of the Sine Wave
   - Sine Function Over Time - Origins of the Sine Wave
   - Properties of Sinusoids - Origins of the Sine Wave
   - Understanding Sinusoidal Motion - Origins of the Sine Wave


### Create any sound by adding sine waves

1. [Posy | Every sound is SINE (video) | 2021](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UrBZsUBibtk)
   - You can create any sound by adding sine waves (and changing their level/volume/envelope with time)

1. AwesomeAcoustics en Español | c.2015-2017
   - [07 The sine wave and sum of waves (interference) (video)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mtDlA66pMAs)
     * The sine wave
     * Constructive and destructive interference
   - [08 Additive synthesis: building sounds with sine waves (video)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fwtA2-Nhixw)
     * Fourier series
     * Synthesising the sound of an oboe


## Standing waves

1. [Khan Academy Physics | Standing waves on strings | Physics (video) | 2016](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gT0IqL1dyyk)
   - Applies to stringed instruments

1. [Professor Dave Explains | Standing Waves and Harmonics (video) | 2017](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0Rfushlee0U)
   - Applies to stringed instruments

1. [Chegg | Introduction to Superposition and Standing Waves | Physics (video) | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TsdIhQHaMbY)
   - Applies to air-columns, i.e. organ pipes and many wind instruments

1. The Physics Classroom | 2023
   - [What is a Standing Wave? (video)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aTaT1orpHg8)
   - [Harmonic Frequencies and Standing Waves (video)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Okjtc1UdM6U)

1. [Pennsylvania State University: College of Engineering: Dan Russell | Acoustics and Vibration Animations](https://www.acs.psu.edu/drussell/demos.html)
   - Lots of excellent animations showing wave behaviour, including sections:
     * Sound Waves and Sources: Basic Wave Phenomena
     * Sound Waves and Sources: Longitudinal Sound Waves
     * Vibration and Structural Waves: Vibrational Modes of Continuous Systems (includes guitar, piano, violin, tuning fork)
   - [Standing Sound Waves (Longitudinal Standing Waves)](https://www.acs.psu.edu/drussell/Demos/StandingWaves/StandingWaves.html)
   - [Longitudinal and Transverse Wave Motion](https://www.acs.psu.edu/drussell/Demos/waves/wavemotion.html)
   - [Pressure and Particle Displacement Upon Reflection](https://www.acs.psu.edu/drussell/Demos/Reflect-Particles/Reflect-Particles.html)
   - [What happens at open and closed ends of a pipe?](https://www.acs.psu.edu/drussell/Demos/Pipe-Ends/pipe-ends.html)
   - [The Plucked Fixed-Fixed String (guitars)](https://www.acs.psu.edu/drussell/Demos/Pluck-Fourier/Pluck-Fourier.html)
   - [The Struck Fixed-Fixed String (pianos)](https://www.acs.psu.edu/drussell/Demos/StruckString/Struck-Fourier.html)
   - [The Bowed String (violins)](https://www.acs.psu.edu/drussell/Demos/Bowed-String/Bowed-String.html)


## String vibration

1. [StudySmarter | Vibrating String](https://www.studysmarter.co.uk/explanations/physics/waves-physics/vibrating-string/)
   - A vibrating string in physics refers to a string's back-and-forth motion caused by an initial displacement from its equilibrium position, where it seeks to return but overshoots due to accumulated momentum.
   - The causes of string vibration involve an energy transfer and wave motion initiated by displacing a string from its equilibrium position. The string vibrates until all the initial provided energy is dissipated, and its frequency depends on its tension, length, and mass.
   - When a string vibrates, it creates a transverse wave with the string's displacement being perpendicular to the wave's motion. The speed of the wave depends on the tension and linear density of the string. This displacement and subsequent reflection of waves create standing wave patterns known as modes of vibrations.
   - The mathematical interpretation of vibrating strings... is characterized by standing waves that represent the harmonic frequencies of the string, known as the modes of vibration or harmonics.
   - Vibrating strings have numerous real-world applications, including producing sound in stringed instruments...

1. [University NSW: School of Physics: Joe Wolfe | Music Acoustics: Strings, standing waves and harmonics](https://www.phys.unsw.edu.au/jw/strings.html)
   - The pitch of a note is determined by how rapidly the string vibrates. This depends on four things:
     1. Thicker, more massive strings vibrate more slowly.
     1. The frequency increases with the tension in the string.
     1. The length of the string that is free to vibrate is also important.
     1. You can also change the pitch by changing the mode of vibration [harmonics]
   - From the equations:
     * f  = v/λ
     * λ₁ = 2L (hence f₁ = v/2L)
     * v  = √(F/μ)  where μ  = M/L and F is the tension force applied to the string
     * Note that variable *v* is the speed of the wave along the string (not the speed of sound).
   - We can derive the equations:
     * fₙ = (n/2L)√(F/μ) = (n/2L)√(FL/M) = (n/2)√(F/LM)
     * Hence, f₁ = ½√(F/LM)
     * Hence, F  = 4f₁²LM

1. [Wikipedia | String vibration](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/String_vibration)


## Air column vibrations

1. [ScienceFlip | Waves and Thermodynamics](https://www.scienceflip.com.au/subjects/physics/wavesandthermodynamics/)
   - [Transverse and Longitudinal Waves – Watch](https://www.scienceflip.com.au/subjects/physics/wavesandthermodynamics/watch2/)
     * [Bozeman Science | Transverse and Longitudinal Waves (video) | 2015](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pqJzn8Y1HFw)
   - [Standing Waves in Air Columns – Watch](https://www.scienceflip.com.au/subjects/physics/wavesandthermodynamics/watch21/)
     * [James Lincoln | Tube Resonance - Standing Sound Waves (video) | 2014](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bHdHaYNX4Tk)

1. [Pressbooks: David Abbott | Understanding Sound: Vibrating air columns](https://pressbooks.pub/sound/chapter/vibrating-air-columns/)

1. [University of Sydney: School of Physics: Ian Cooper | Sound Waves in Air](https://d-arora.github.io/VisualPhysics/mod31/m31_pipesA.htm)

1. [The Physics Classroom: Physics Tutorial: Sound Waves and Music](https://www.physicsclassroom.com/class/sound)
   - [Open-End Air Columns](https://www.physicsclassroom.com/class/sound/Lesson-5/Open-End-Air-Columns)
   - [Closed-End Air Columns](https://www.physicsclassroom.com/class/sound/Lesson-5/Closed-End-Air-Columns)

1. [University NSW: School of Physics: Joe Wolfe | Flute acoustics: an introduction to how a flute works](https://www.phys.unsw.edu.au/jw/fluteacoustics.html)


## Why does the same note-pitch sound different when played on a different musical instrument?

1. [Audio University: Kyle Mathias | Why Do Instruments Sound Different? | 2022](https://audiouniversityonline.com/why-do-instruments-sound-different/)
   - The Harmonic Character Of The Instrument (timbre).
   - The Envelope Of The Instrument: That is, the level variation of a note or chord over time. It is divided into three parts: Attack, Sustain, and Decay.
   - [Audio University | Why Do Instruments Sound Different? (w/ Visual Demonstrations!) (video) | 2022](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GLnrysQ1Erg)
