theory/Links_MusicTheory.md, before:

# Music theory

Some of the content below:

- assumes you are familiar with the notes on a piano 
  * you can remedy this now by viewing the first 3 diagrams in the section *The Musical Alphabet*
    [here](https://www.pianote.com/blog/how-to-read-piano-notes/#musical-alphabet)
- assumes you know the basics of reading music (whereas some teach it as the fundamentals of music theory)
  * there is no quick remedy, but you can find a brief guide
    [here](https://www.pianote.com/blog/how-to-read-piano-notes/)
    if you need it


1. [musictheory.net | Theory Lessons](https://www.musictheory.net/lessons)
   - Basic and more advanced topics covered
   - Links to interactive content
   - Navigate the interactive content pages by:
     * Advancing from one line (or paragraph or section) to the next using the right-arrow key, or clicking the right-arrow or clicking the next line
     * For each line (or paragraph or section) a new image appears above the text
     * Sometimes there is a speaker/sound icon which can be clicked to hear a corresponding recording

1. [teoria.com - José Rodríguez Alvira | teoría : Music Theory Web](https://www.teoria.com/)
   - Basic and more advanced topics covered
   - Some content is interactive; but I did not grant access to devices nor install a web browser add-on
   - Peer reviewed music theory content
   - Teoría is a Spanish word meaning theory
   - [How to use teoria.com](https://www.teoria.com/en/help/web-help.php)

1. [ICON Collective - Rory PQ | Basic Music Theory for Beginners - The Complete Guide | 2020](https://iconcollective.edu/basic-music-theory/)
   - Covers the basics

1. [Simon Bennett | The Raven’s Spiral Guide to Music Theory, Version 0.8.1 | 2012](https://www.scribd.com/doc/5220863/Ravenspiral-Guide-to-Music-Theory)
   - An informal guide to music theory as it relates to composition
   - Basic and more advanced topics covered
   - Free ebook (licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivs License)
   - [PDF version](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1jbtccevUgiUkVBn2vLGaJqZs1nOn7YxH)
   - [KVR forum: The guide formerly known as Ravenspiral Guide](https://www.kvraudio.com/forum/viewtopic.php?t=162135)

1. [Rick Beato | Music Theory Masterclass 1: Drilling the Basics (video) | 2021](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=De97zQi5rzc)
   - Covers chord formulas (and scales/modes)
   - Intended audience is those interested in popular music

1. [grantj-re3 | Intervals, major scale and (natural) minor scale (PDF) | 2023](assets/musicIntervalTable.pdf)
   - My attempt at combining most of the interval information into a single table

Commit message:

Added 2 more music theory links. Reorganised theory page.

theory/Links_MusicTheory.md, after:

# Music theory

Some of the content below:

- assumes you are familiar with the notes on a piano 
  * you can remedy this now by viewing the first 3 diagrams in the section *The Musical Alphabet*
    [here](https://www.pianote.com/blog/how-to-read-piano-notes/#musical-alphabet)
- assumes you know the basics of reading music (whereas some teach it as the fundamentals of music theory)
  * there is no quick remedy, but you can find a brief guide
    [here](https://www.pianote.com/blog/how-to-read-piano-notes/)
    if you need it


## Formal or comprehensive coverage

1. [University of Puget Sound - Robert Hutchinson | Music Theory for the 21st-Century Classroom | 2021](https://musictheory.pugetsound.edu/mt21c/MusicTheory.html)
   - Basic and more advanced topics covered
   - Thorough and structured information
   - Convenient navigation

1. [musictheory.net - Ricci Adams | Theory Lessons | c.2000-2022](https://www.musictheory.net/lessons)
   - Basic and more advanced topics covered
   - Links to interactive content
   - Navigate the interactive content pages by:
     * Advancing from one line (or paragraph or section) to the next using the right-arrow key, or clicking the right-arrow or clicking the next line
     * For each line (or paragraph or section) a new image appears above the text
     * Sometimes there is a speaker/sound icon which can be clicked to hear a corresponding recording

1. [teoria.com - José Rodríguez Alvira | teoría : Music Theory Web | c.1998-2023](https://www.teoria.com/)
   - Basic and more advanced topics covered
   - Some content is interactive; but I did not grant access to devices nor install a web browser add-on
   - Peer reviewed music theory content
   - Teoría is a Spanish word meaning theory
   - [How to use teoria.com](https://www.teoria.com/en/help/web-help.php)

1. [Mark Gotham, Kyle Gullings et al.| Open Music Theory, version 2 | 2021](https://viva.pressbooks.pub/openmusictheory/)
   - Basic and more advanced topics covered
   - Scroll through the table of contents to navigate to the next page
   - Online Resources at the end of each section


## Informal or narrow coverage

1. [ICON Collective - Rory PQ | Basic Music Theory for Beginners - The Complete Guide | 2020](https://iconcollective.edu/basic-music-theory/)
   - Covers the basics on a single web page

1. [Simon Bennett | The Raven’s Spiral Guide to Music Theory, Version 0.8.1 | 2012](https://www.scribd.com/doc/5220863/Ravenspiral-Guide-to-Music-Theory)
   - An informal guide to music theory as it relates to composition
   - Basic and more advanced topics covered
   - Free ebook (licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivs License)
   - [PDF version](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1jbtccevUgiUkVBn2vLGaJqZs1nOn7YxH)
   - [KVR forum: The guide formerly known as Ravenspiral Guide](https://www.kvraudio.com/forum/viewtopic.php?t=162135)

1. [Rick Beato | Music Theory Masterclass 1: Drilling the Basics (video) | 2021](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=De97zQi5rzc)
   - Covers chord formulas (and scales/modes)
   - Intended audience is those interested in popular music

1. [grantj-re3 | Intervals, major scale and (natural) minor scale (PDF) | 2023](assets/musicIntervalTable.pdf)
   - My attempt at combining most of the interval information into a single table
