theory/Links_EqualTemperamentTuning.md, before:

# Tuning, equal temperament & mathematics

1. [Simon Fraser University: Barry Truax | HANDBOOK FOR ACOUSTIC ECOLOGY 2nd Ed | 1999](https://www.sfu.ca/sonic-studio-webdav/handbook/index.html)
   - [Equal temperament](https://www.sfu.ca/sonic-studio-webdav/handbook/Equal_Temperament.html)
   - [Just Tuning or Just Intonation](https://www.sfu.ca/sonic-studio-webdav/handbook/Just_Tuning.html)


1. [Dave Darling | Music theory (playlist) | 2020-2021](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLl8fINkcK7aNEnM_p1RfTk9a3DPXZOv74)
   - [What is equal temperament? (video)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FWN0JJGQyvk)
   - [Pythagorean tuning (video)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=510oXj_eBQI)
   - [The Pythagorean comma (video)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XI4q4LkueN8)
   - [Circle of fifths: music's masterplan (video)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IO9G4UG7M4I)
   - [Did The Beatles play out of tune? (video)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-GPgaMmft88)
   - Also see:
     * https://www.youtube.com/@drdaviddarling/playlists
     * https://www.youtube.com/@discovermaths/playlists

1. [Science'n'me | Equal Temperament vs Just Intonation (video) | 2016](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Yqa2Hbb_eIs)
   - Listen to the difference between Equal Temperament chords and Just Intonation chords

1. Wikipedia pages
   - [Octave](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Octave)
   - [Semitone](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Semitone)
   - [Cent (music)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cent_(music))
   - [Equal temperament](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Equal_temperament)
   - [Just intonation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Just_intonation)
   - [Beat (acoustics)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Beat_(acoustics))


## Tuning and beat frequency

1. [Khan Academy | Beat frequency | Physics (video) | 2016](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ca91iOVGd9A)

1. [Eastern Illinois University: Doug Davis | Beats | 2003](https://ux1.eiu.edu/~cfadd/3050/Ch12Sound/beats.html)

1. [University of Connecticut: Dr. George Gibson | 5.5 Interference in Time: Beats](https://www.phys.uconn.edu/~gibson/Notes/Section5_5/Sec5_5.htm)


## History of equal temperament tuning

1. [Nathan Nokes | Brief History of Western Tuning (Understanding Equal Temperament) (video) | 2015](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wUBkbrvCmGA)

1. [Cedarville University: Alisa Daum | The Establishment of Equal Temperament | 2011](https://digitalcommons.cedarville.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1005&context=music_and_worship_student_presentations)

Commit message:

Add more tuning links
- Animation for beats
- Scientific Pitch Notation

theory/Links_EqualTemperamentTuning.md, after:

# Tuning, equal temperament & mathematics

1. [Simon Fraser University: Barry Truax | HANDBOOK FOR ACOUSTIC ECOLOGY 2nd Ed | 1999](https://www.sfu.ca/sonic-studio-webdav/handbook/index.html)
   - [Equal temperament](https://www.sfu.ca/sonic-studio-webdav/handbook/Equal_Temperament.html)
   - [Just Tuning or Just Intonation](https://www.sfu.ca/sonic-studio-webdav/handbook/Just_Tuning.html)


1. [Dave Darling | Music theory (playlist) | 2020-2021](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLl8fINkcK7aNEnM_p1RfTk9a3DPXZOv74)
   - [What is equal temperament? (video)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FWN0JJGQyvk)
   - [Pythagorean tuning (video)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=510oXj_eBQI)
   - [The Pythagorean comma (video)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XI4q4LkueN8)
   - [Circle of fifths: music's masterplan (video)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IO9G4UG7M4I)
   - [Did The Beatles play out of tune? (video)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-GPgaMmft88)
   - Also see:
     * https://www.youtube.com/@drdaviddarling/playlists
     * https://www.youtube.com/@discovermaths/playlists

1. [Science'n'me | Equal Temperament vs Just Intonation (video) | 2016](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Yqa2Hbb_eIs)
   - Listen to the difference between Equal Temperament chords and Just Intonation chords

1. Wikipedia pages
   - [Octave](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Octave)
   - [Semitone](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Semitone)
   - [Cent (music)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cent_(music))
   - [Equal temperament](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Equal_temperament)
   - [Just intonation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Just_intonation)
   - [Beat (acoustics)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Beat_(acoustics))


## History of equal temperament tuning

1. [Nathan Nokes | Brief History of Western Tuning (Understanding Equal Temperament) (video) | 2015](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wUBkbrvCmGA)

1. [Cedarville University: Alisa Daum | The Establishment of Equal Temperament | 2011](https://digitalcommons.cedarville.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1005&context=music_and_worship_student_presentations)


## Tuning and beat frequency

1. [Khan Academy | Beat frequency | Physics (video) | 2016](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ca91iOVGd9A)

1. [Eastern Illinois University: Doug Davis | Beats | 2003](https://ux1.eiu.edu/~cfadd/3050/Ch12Sound/beats.html)

1. [University of Connecticut: Dr. George Gibson | 5.5 Interference in Time: Beats](https://www.phys.uconn.edu/~gibson/Notes/Section5_5/Sec5_5.htm)

1. [Pennsylvania State University: College of Engineering: Dan Russell | Superposition of Waves | 1996-2014](https://www.acs.psu.edu/drussell/Demos/superposition/superposition.html)
   - See "Two sine waves with different frequencies: Beats" at the bottom of the page for an animation


## Scientific Pitch Notation (SPN)

Also known as:
- American Standard Pitch Notation (ASPN)
- International Pitch Notation (IPN)

This is a notation standard which gives names to notes such as C4 (middle C) or A0 (the lowest note on the piano).
Not to be confused with *Scientific Pitch* or *Standard Pitch* or *American Standard Pitch* or *ISO 16:1975* which are tuning-frequency standards.

*There does not appear to be a International Organization for Standardization (ISO), US or other formal standard for this notation.*


1. [Music & Theory: Bri Lundberg | An Easy Guide to Scientific Pitch Notation | 2022](https://www.musicandtheory.com/an-easy-guide-to-scientific-pitch-notation/)

1. [Liutaio Mottola: R.M. Mottola | Table of Musical Notes and Their Frequencies and Wavelengths | 2020](https://www.liutaiomottola.com/formulae/freqtab.htm)

1. [Wikipedia | Scientific pitch notation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scientific_pitch_notation)

1. [Flutopedia: Clint Goss | Octave Notation](https://www.flutopedia.com/octave_notation.htm)
   - IPN is a note-octave notation termed “Scientific Pitch Notation” in the original proposal by the Acoustical Society of America ([Young-RW 1939])
   - [R. W. Young. “Terminology for Logarithmic Frequency Units”, Journal of the Acoustical Society of America, Volume 11, Number 1, July 1939, pages 134–139, doi:10.1121/1.1916017. ISSN: 0001-4966](http://dx.doi.org/10.1121/1.1916017)
