harmonica/Links_HarmonicaLessonsBeginner.md, before:

# Beginner harmonica lessons

1. [Mitch Grainger | Step-by-Step Harmonica Lessons (video playlist) | c.2012-2020](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLk88YC8f3cIt5lgVW6oqLIAcjWJ81tYfx)
   - Five great structured beginner lessons.

1. [Tomlin Leckie | Beginner Harmonica Lessons (video playlist) | c.2015-2022](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLZbYT_90MeIwzz-yIIdZ9C1vt6ntZnnYh)
   - Good (unstructured) lessons. In addition to this playlist, there are some great lessons/videos below.
   - [Tomlin Leckie | Tomlin Blues Harmonica 101 - lesson 1 (TLA001) (video) | 2012](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AUGJYZy_-x4&list=PL6B37486F5171C4FC)
   - [Tomlin Leckie | How to Breathe on Harmonica (video) | 2015](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F0osUHhwpvE)
   - [Tomlin Leckie | Harmonica 2 hole draw problem (How to play a clean 2 hole draw) (video) | 2017](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QTzyM-mq7Qc)
   - [Tomlin Leckie | 8 Tips For Bending On Harmonica - Beginner Harmonica Lesson (video) | 2017](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cbiOtr_pNyk)
   - [Tomlin Leckie | Top 5 Mistakes That Beginner Harmonica Players Make (video) | 2017](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=naumP9nxAhI)
   - [Tomlin Leckie | The Best Way To Practice Harmonica (video) | 2017](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V6sdg4WkHFA)
   - [Tomlin Leckie | Piano Man by Billy Joel: Beginner Harmonica Lesson + Free Tabs (video) | 2016](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xWeHrVvSlbY)

1. [Harmonica com | Beginner Harmonica Lessons (video playlist) | c.2017-2022](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLXkDrumJcCw0PdsYe4xFSF9c9-v2v7969)
   - Good (unstructured) lessons.
   - [Harmonica com | How to Play Heart of Gold on Harmonica (A Step-By-Step Guide) (video) | 2022](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HRCV6ZGlXbo)

Commit message:

Add more info re harmonica lessons

harmonica/Links_HarmonicaLessonsBeginner.md, after:

# Beginner harmonica lessons

1. [Mitch Grainger | Step-by-Step Harmonica Lessons (video playlist) | c.2012-2020](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLk88YC8f3cIt5lgVW6oqLIAcjWJ81tYfx)
   - Five great structured beginner lessons.
   - A summary of the content is given [here](https://harmonicatime.com/step-by-step-harmonica-lessons/).
     The first five lessons are available free on YouTube (links below).
     More content is available via [membership plans](https://harmonicatime.com/pricing/).
   - [Lesson 1](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ddM5RlWSJ4E)
   - [Lesson 2](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2d7EuV7PvoE)
   - [Lesson 3](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5Qr9mtT76Kc)
   - [Lesson 4](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GhT2Odlz2uI)
   - [Lesson 5 - Bending Notes](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JtK2Mw8B_wY)


1. [Tomlin Leckie | Beginner Harmonica Lessons (video playlist) | c.2015-2022](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLZbYT_90MeIwzz-yIIdZ9C1vt6ntZnnYh)
   - Good (unstructured) lessons. In addition to this playlist, there are some great lessons/videos below.
   - [Tomlin Leckie | Tomlin Blues Harmonica 101 - lesson 1 (TLA001) (video) | 2012](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AUGJYZy_-x4&list=PL6B37486F5171C4FC)
   - [Tomlin Leckie | How to Breathe on Harmonica (video) | 2015](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F0osUHhwpvE)
   - [Tomlin Leckie | Harmonica 2 hole draw problem (How to play a clean 2 hole draw) (video) | 2017](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QTzyM-mq7Qc)
   - [Tomlin Leckie | 8 Tips For Bending On Harmonica - Beginner Harmonica Lesson (video) | 2017](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cbiOtr_pNyk)
   - [Tomlin Leckie | Top 5 Mistakes That Beginner Harmonica Players Make (video) | 2017](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=naumP9nxAhI)
   - [Tomlin Leckie | The Best Way To Practice Harmonica (video) | 2017](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V6sdg4WkHFA)
   - [Tomlin Leckie | Piano Man by Billy Joel: Beginner Harmonica Lesson + Free Tabs (video) | 2016](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xWeHrVvSlbY)

1. [Harmonica com | Beginner Harmonica Lessons (video playlist) | c.2017-2022](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLXkDrumJcCw0PdsYe4xFSF9c9-v2v7969)
   - Good (unstructured) lessons.
   - [Harmonica com | How to Play Heart of Gold on Harmonica (A Step-By-Step Guide) (video) | 2022](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HRCV6ZGlXbo)
