harmonica/Links_BuyHarmonica.md, before:

# Buying harmonicas

## General information and popular harmonicas

- [Harmonica com - Luke | Which Harmonica to Buy? | 2019-2023Luke’s Harmonica Ratings](https://www.harmonica.com/which-harmonica-to-buy/)
  * *Luke’s Harmonica Ratings* section of this page is [here](https://www.harmonica.com/which-harmonica-to-buy/#pro-ratings)

- [American Songwriter | The Best Harmonicas For Every Genre | 2021-2022](https://americansongwriter.com/gear-guides/harmonica/)

- [Music Industry How To | 13 Best Harmonicas 2023 - For beginners, pros, blues and more | 2023](https://www.musicindustryhowto.com/13-best-harmonicas-for-beginners-pros-blues-and-more/)
  Includes sections about:
  * Top harmonicas for beginners
  * Best professional harmonicas
  * Best harmonicas for the blues
  * What should I look for in a harmonica?
  * What types of harmonicas are there?
  * What's the best harmonica brand?


## Budget harmonicas

- Fender Blues Deluxe
  * [Harmonica com | Is the Fender Blues Deluxe Harmonica right for you? (No BS Review) | 2021](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yPhacbjqU7o)
  * [Tim Douthit | Fender Blues Deluxe Harmonica Review REVISITED! | 2020](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-9_j5_gcNek)

- Comparisons
  * [Tim Douthit | Fender Blues Deluxe vs Kongsheng Amazing 20 vs Easttop T008k & T003! | 2022](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B3fEUCDiW0A)
    + He says you won't be disappointed with the following 3:
      - Fender Blues Deluxe
      - Kongsheng Amazing 20
      - Easttop T008k


## Pro harmonicas

- Lee Oskar
  * [Harmonica com | Is the Lee Oskar Harmonica right for you? (No BS Review) | 2021](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KYHKsg_hh4E)
  * [Tim Douthit | Lee Oskar Harmonica Review | 2021](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VWyTKYvMlFA)

Commit message:

Minor improvements re buying harmonicas

harmonica/Links_BuyHarmonica.md, after:

# Buying harmonicas

## General information and popular harmonicas [in the USA?]

- [Harmonica com - Luke | Which Harmonica to Buy? | 2019-2023](https://www.harmonica.com/which-harmonica-to-buy/)
  * The *Luke’s Harmonica Ratings* section in this page is [here](https://www.harmonica.com/which-harmonica-to-buy/#pro-ratings)
  * Includes some general info about harmonicas

- [American Songwriter | The Best Harmonicas For Every Genre | 2021-2022](https://americansongwriter.com/gear-guides/harmonica/)
  Includes a Buying Guide for Finding a Harmonica which includes:
  * What Are The Different Types Of Harmonicas?
  * What Things Should You Consider When Buying A Harmonica?
  * Best Harmonica FAQ

- [Music Industry How To | 13 Best Harmonicas 2023 - For beginners, pros, blues and more | 2023](https://www.musicindustryhowto.com/13-best-harmonicas-for-beginners-pros-blues-and-more/)
  Includes sections about:
  * Top harmonicas for beginners
  * Best professional harmonicas
  * Best harmonicas for the blues
  * What should I look for in a harmonica?
  * What types of harmonicas are there?
  * What's the best harmonica brand?


## Budget harmonicas

- Fender Blues Deluxe
  * [Harmonica com | Is the Fender Blues Deluxe Harmonica right for you? (No BS Review) | 2021](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yPhacbjqU7o)
  * [Tim Douthit | Fender Blues Deluxe Harmonica Review REVISITED! | 2020](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-9_j5_gcNek)

- Comparisons
  * [Tim Douthit | Fender Blues Deluxe vs Kongsheng Amazing 20 vs Easttop T008k & T003! | 2022](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B3fEUCDiW0A)
    He says you won't be disappointed with the following three:
    + Fender Blues Deluxe
    + Kongsheng Amazing 20
    + Easttop T008k


## Pro harmonicas

- Lee Oskar
  * [Harmonica com | Is the Lee Oskar Harmonica right for you? (No BS Review) | 2021](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KYHKsg_hh4E)
  * [Tim Douthit | Lee Oskar Harmonica Review | 2021](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VWyTKYvMlFA)
