flute/Links_FluteTonguing.md, before:

# Flute: Tonguing & articulation

1. [Allegro Music Publishing: Karen North | Mastering the Art of Tonguing: A Guide for Flute Beginners | 2024](https://www.allegromusicpublishing.com/post/mastering-the-art-of-tonguing-a-guide-for-flute-beginners)


## Tongue position

1. [April Clayton - Flute Tube | Quick Fix for Tongue Placement and Sound (video shorts)](https://www.youtube.com/shorts/5P3ST7ClvJ4)
1. [tonebase Flute: Jennifer Grim | Relax the Tongue (video shorts)](https://www.youtube.com/shorts/grwLKweC4Wo)
1. [The Flute Practice: Tatiana Thaele | Do you have the WRONG idea about flute tonguing? (video) | 2019](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Nbdg6X_DXXE)


## Legato tonguing

A common way to describe how to play legato on the flute is to only use the tongue to start the first note and slur the remaining notes in the series, for example see:
[Kansas City Symphony: Kayla Burggraf | MUSIC TALK - Flute Legato (video) | 2021](https://www.youtube.com/watch?app=desktop&v=B_lFQauZGag). (Although Kayla may not be
using her tongue, you can see movement in her throat at the beginning of each note in the scale.) Below are some alternative descriptions where the tongue *is* used.

1. [Sophia Anastasia | Legato-tonguing explanation (video) | 2020](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=I9rofkq9rjQ)

1. [Music Lifeboat | Learn From A Master: Flute Lesson 13: Staccato, Legato, Slur, Accent With Musician Elise Shope Henry (video) | 2019](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Wl9lZRT7mlE&t=55s)
   - From [this playlist](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLjolLvS-EDNDhL08H1glgsr9QyXW85c2x)
   - Try "da" instead of "ta"

1. [Teach Flute: Dr. Naomi Seidman | Staccato Articulation: How To Practice It | 2013](http://www.teachflute.com/2013/04/staccato-articulation-how-to-practice-it.html)
   - Legato articulation is successfully achieved with the tongue hitting the alveolar ridge, where the gums meet the teeth, with the tip of the tongue. This placement of the tongue is safe for all beginner flutists because the tip of the tongue does not come close to the aperture to disturb the air.

1. Dr. Cate's Flute Tips (Cate Hummel)
   - [Developing a Seamless Legato | 2015](https://drcatesflutetips.wordpress.com/2015/04/13/developing-a-seamless-legato/)
     * Similar article: [Blowing Between the Notes: The Fine Art of Flute Legato - Band Directors Talk Shop | 2016](https://banddirectorstalkshop.com/flute-legato/)
   - [Legato and Staccato Blowing | 2016](https://drcatesflutetips.wordpress.com/2016/09/18/legato-and-staccato-blowing/)
   - [Some Ideas for Teaching Legato | 2016](https://drcatesflutetips.wordpress.com/2016/10/23/some-ideas-for-teaching-legato/)


## Articulation

1. [Band Directors Talk Shop: Dr. Shauna Thompson | Mastering the Art of Flute Articulation | 2018](https://banddirectorstalkshop.com/mastering-the-art-of-flute-articulation/)
   - Common problems & solutions: No Articulation | Incorrect Tongue Placement | Stopping the Sound | Resting Position
   - Ask questions: Where does your tongue touch to start the note? | How much of your tongue is making contact to begin each note? |
     Where does your tongue go AFTER it starts the note? | Play a high note then a low note. Is your tongue touching in the same place for both?

1. [Emily Beynon | ARTICULATION: flute TUTORIAL (video) | 2020](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AuNjvqEMRgU)
   - Air | release not attack | double tonguing | triplet tonguing | variety of lengths |
     varying the consonant | repeated notes | grape-pip articulation | finger tonguing | slurs

Commit message:

Add flute tonguing/embouchure links by Emily Moran

flute/Links_FluteTonguing.md, after:

# Flute: Tonguing & articulation

1. [Allegro Music Publishing: Karen North | Mastering the Art of Tonguing: A Guide for Flute Beginners | 2024](https://www.allegromusicpublishing.com/post/mastering-the-art-of-tonguing-a-guide-for-flute-beginners)
1. [Band Directors Talk Shop: Emily Moran | Tonguing and Embouchure Flexibility for Beginning Flute | 2016-2019](https://banddirectorstalkshop.com/tonguing-embouchure-flexibility-beginning-flute/)

## Tongue position

1. [April Clayton - Flute Tube | Quick Fix for Tongue Placement and Sound (video shorts)](https://www.youtube.com/shorts/5P3ST7ClvJ4)
1. [tonebase Flute: Jennifer Grim | Relax the Tongue (video shorts)](https://www.youtube.com/shorts/grwLKweC4Wo)
1. [The Flute Practice: Tatiana Thaele | Do you have the WRONG idea about flute tonguing? (video) | 2019](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Nbdg6X_DXXE)


## Legato tonguing

A common way to describe how to play legato on the flute is to only use the tongue to start the first note and slur the remaining notes in the series, for example see:
[Kansas City Symphony: Kayla Burggraf | MUSIC TALK - Flute Legato (video) | 2021](https://www.youtube.com/watch?app=desktop&v=B_lFQauZGag). (Although Kayla may not be
using her tongue, you can see movement in her throat at the beginning of each note in the scale.) Below are some alternative descriptions where the tongue *is* used.

1. [Sophia Anastasia | Legato-tonguing explanation (video) | 2020](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=I9rofkq9rjQ)

1. [Music Lifeboat | Learn From A Master: Flute Lesson 13: Staccato, Legato, Slur, Accent With Musician Elise Shope Henry (video) | 2019](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Wl9lZRT7mlE&t=55s)
   - From [this playlist](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLjolLvS-EDNDhL08H1glgsr9QyXW85c2x)
   - Try "da" instead of "ta"

1. [Teach Flute: Dr. Naomi Seidman | Staccato Articulation: How To Practice It | 2013](http://www.teachflute.com/2013/04/staccato-articulation-how-to-practice-it.html)
   - Legato articulation is successfully achieved with the tongue hitting the alveolar ridge, where the gums meet the teeth, with the tip of the tongue. This placement of the tongue is safe for all beginner flutists because the tip of the tongue does not come close to the aperture to disturb the air.

1. Dr. Cate's Flute Tips (Cate Hummel)
   - [Developing a Seamless Legato | 2015](https://drcatesflutetips.wordpress.com/2015/04/13/developing-a-seamless-legato/)
     * Similar article: [Blowing Between the Notes: The Fine Art of Flute Legato - Band Directors Talk Shop | 2016](https://banddirectorstalkshop.com/flute-legato/)
   - [Legato and Staccato Blowing | 2016](https://drcatesflutetips.wordpress.com/2016/09/18/legato-and-staccato-blowing/)
   - [Some Ideas for Teaching Legato | 2016](https://drcatesflutetips.wordpress.com/2016/10/23/some-ideas-for-teaching-legato/)


## Articulation

1. [Band Directors Talk Shop: Dr. Shauna Thompson | Mastering the Art of Flute Articulation | 2018](https://banddirectorstalkshop.com/mastering-the-art-of-flute-articulation/)
   - Common problems & solutions: No Articulation | Incorrect Tongue Placement | Stopping the Sound | Resting Position
   - Ask questions: Where does your tongue touch to start the note? | How much of your tongue is making contact to begin each note? |
     Where does your tongue go AFTER it starts the note? | Play a high note then a low note. Is your tongue touching in the same place for both?

1. [Emily Beynon | ARTICULATION: flute TUTORIAL (video) | 2020](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AuNjvqEMRgU)
   - Air | release not attack | double tonguing | triplet tonguing | variety of lengths |
     varying the consonant | repeated notes | grape-pip articulation | finger tonguing | slurs
