flute/Links_FluteBreathing.md, before:

# Flute: Breathing

## Circular breathing

1. :thumbsup: [Earspasm Music: Michael Lowenstern | Learn how to Circular Breathe in 10 minutes. Really. | 2016](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qcyY0tsGm6A) -- for bass clarinet

1. [Park House Creations: Eric Black | Circular Breathing Made Easy | 2020](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A7bHi-Q3AZo) -- for clarinet
   - Similar info to Earspasm video above

1. :thumbsup: [Ensemble Musikfabrik: Helen Bledsoe | CIRCULAR BREATHING TECHNIQUE FOR THE FLUTE | 2011](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UQyAotWQjZQ) -- for flute
   - Excellent detail

1. [Sarah Jeffery / Team Recorder | HOW TO LEARN CIRCULAR BREATHING (first ever Team Recorder video) | 2015](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4ZyEpu5rqX0) -- for recorder
   - She has an exercise where she breathes *in and out* through her nose while squirting a jet a water out of her mouth!

1. [Melissa Keeling | Circular Breathing Lesson for Flute (with Melissa Keeling) | 2010](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UtpGyZif-h8) -- for flute

Commit message:

Add links re flute breath control

flute/Links_FluteBreathing.md, after:

# Flute: Breathing

## Breath control

1. [DoctorFlute: Dr. Angela Kinney McBrearty | Breath Control (playlist) | 2018-2023](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLyAvGjkONBvVd3SkRFcK-yXvoo3ToousJ)
1. [The Flute Practice: Tatiana Thaele | Exploring Flute Breathing (playlist) | 2016-2019](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLg66Jjfuwi_1Cu8zdT1BYTlEVwGSVpxsF)
1. Rebecca Fuller | Breathing Secrets for Flutists | 2020-2024 --
   [Part 1](https://learnfluteonline.com/breathing-secrets-for-flutists/) and
   [Part 2](https://learnfluteonline.com/breathing-secrets-for-flutists-part-2/)


## Circular breathing

1. :thumbsup: [Earspasm Music: Michael Lowenstern | Learn how to Circular Breathe in 10 minutes. Really. (video) | 2016](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qcyY0tsGm6A) -- for bass clarinet
   - Excellent description and diagram
   - The video takes 10 minutes, but to learn the technique will "take weeks of practice" (as he says at 4m28s)

1. [Park House Creations: Eric Black | Circular Breathing Made Easy (video) | 2020](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A7bHi-Q3AZo) -- for clarinet
   - Similar info to Earspasm video above

1. :thumbsup: [Ensemble Musikfabrik: Helen Bledsoe | CIRCULAR BREATHING TECHNIQUE FOR THE FLUTE (video) | 2011](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UQyAotWQjZQ) -- for flute
   - Excellent detail

1. [Sarah Jeffery / Team Recorder | HOW TO LEARN CIRCULAR BREATHING (video) | 2015](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4ZyEpu5rqX0) -- for recorder
   - She has an exercise where she breathes *in and out* through her nose while squirting a jet a water out of her mouth!

1. [Melissa Keeling | Circular Breathing Lesson for Flute (with Melissa Keeling) (video) | 2010](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UtpGyZif-h8) -- for flute
