flute/Links_FluteTips2025a.md, before:

# Flute tips - 2025

## Dynamic Range

1. [Band Directors Talk Shop: Erin Kendall Murphy | Expanding the Flute's Dynamic Range | 2020](https://banddirectorstalkshop.com/expanding-the-flutes-dynamic-range/)


## Intonation / Playing in tune

1. Band Directors Talk Shop: Barbara Lambrecht | Learning to Play the Flute in Tune | 2016-2020 -- 
   [Part 1](https://banddirectorstalkshop.com/learning-to-play-the-flute-in-tune-part-1-2/) &
   [Part 2](https://banddirectorstalkshop.com/learning-to-play-the-flute-in-tune-part-1/)
1. [Band Directors Talk Shop: Danika White | Solutions for Common Flute Problems | 2018-2020](https://banddirectorstalkshop.com/solutions-for-common-flute-problems/)


## Tone quality

1. [Band Directors Talk Shop: Erin Kendall Murphy | Troubleshooting Flute Tone | 2017-2019](https://banddirectorstalkshop.com/troubleshooting-flute-tone/)
1. [Band Directors Talk Shop: Erin Kendall Murphy | Flute Basics: Fixing Fingering Problems | 2018-2019](https://banddirectorstalkshop.com/flute-basics-fixing-fingering-problems/)
1. [Doctor Flute: Dr. Angela McBrearty | Flute Masterclass 5 Methods to Improve Your Tone Today (playlist) | 2018](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLyAvGjkONBvXYZR2zGyrcFLOE20ibF7j3)

Commit message:

Add file re sound quality. Update files re breathing & tips.

flute/Links_FluteTips2025a.md, after:

# Flute tips - 2025

## Dynamic Range

1. [Band Directors Talk Shop: Erin Kendall Murphy | Expanding the Flute's Dynamic Range | 2020](https://banddirectorstalkshop.com/expanding-the-flutes-dynamic-range/)
1. [The Flute Channel: Amelie Brodeur | Flute Dynamics Lessons (playlist) | 2017-2019](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLM_znTF7I0H-h_y3Qf7J3vu0OhwemLVC3)


## Intonation / Playing in tune

1. Band Directors Talk Shop: Barbara Lambrecht | Learning to Play the Flute in Tune | 2016-2020 -- 
   [Part 1](https://banddirectorstalkshop.com/learning-to-play-the-flute-in-tune-part-1-2/) &
   [Part 2](https://banddirectorstalkshop.com/learning-to-play-the-flute-in-tune-part-1/)
1. [Band Directors Talk Shop: Danika White | Solutions for Common Flute Problems | 2018-2020](https://banddirectorstalkshop.com/solutions-for-common-flute-problems/)
1. The Flute Channel: Amelie Brodeur
   - [How to play in TUNE with your Flute (video) | 2018](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5pDGWOWO91g)
   - [3 Tips to Help Stay in Tune with your Flute (video) | 2018](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xwksVOk4J-U)
