piano/Links_PianoLessonsBeginnerJazz.md, before:

# Beginner piano lessons: Jazz & lead sheets

## Piano Sauce

1. [Play Any Lead Sheet (playlist) | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLvmY9Yv_ZjZF87uO3sl6qLCANasrYLsOM)

1. [How To Learn Piano as Fast as Humanly Possible | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VZDmmAhQobY) ... The principles of practice
   - Principle I: How to make muscle memory
     * Play it right -> Correct muscle memory -> Get better
     * Play it wrong -> Incorrect muscle memory -> Get worse
     * Feedback loop:  Action --[builds]--> Muscle memory --[affects]--> Action ...
       + To learn anything: Get it right more often than you get it wrong
       + Learn quickly by making zero mistakes
       + Even a relatively small number of mistakes can double the time it takes us to learn something
     * ***1st rule of effective practice: Make less mistakes***
       + Prioritise accuracy over speed
         - Start by ignoring timing completely
         - Later, use a metronome and start slow
         - Don't increase speed until ready
     * ***2nd rule: Don't gamble***
       + Stop and only continue when you are confident you are going to nail it
       + Mentally step back from what you're playing
       + Focus on stopping before mistakes
     * ***3rd rule: Fix every mistake immediately***
       + Constantly look out for mistakes
       + Stop and restart from the previous bar

   - Principle II: The power of sleep
     * Use it or lose it
     * Minimum of 10-15 minutes of daily practice for steady progress (but aim for at least 5 minutes)
     * ***4th rule: Practice every day***
       + Consolidates and protects existing skills
       + Builds the habit of daily practice
       + Makes it easier to sit down and get started
     * ***5th rule: Review, review, review***
       + Spend a short time practicing previous aspects before starting new material

   - Principle III: The Goldilocks Zone
     * ***Set practice at the right difficulty level.*** Not too easy and not too difficult.
     * Set the metronome speed so you can reliably play the bar/bars correctly.
     * Goldilocks Zone tasks:
       + Have to master a new skill
       + Can take advantage of feedback loop (see above)
     * ***To stay in the Goldilocks Zone you will need to modify the difficulty of the tasks.***
       + Section size
       + Hands separate
       + Phrasing
       + Speed
       + Dynamics
       + Technique
       + Improvisation complexity

Commit message:

Add info re chords & jazz

piano/Links_PianoLessonsBeginnerJazz.md, after:

# Beginner piano lessons: Jazz & lead sheets


To play from lead sheets, you will need to be good at understanding and playing chords and intervals.
If you are a beginner, the following info may help.

 - [Piano chord charts](https://github.com/grantj-re3/MusiCalzone/blob/master/piano/Links_PianoChordCharts.md)
 - [grantj-re3 | Intervals, major scale and (natural) minor scale (PDF) | 2023](https://github.com/grantj-re3/MusiCalzone/blob/master/theory/assets/musicIntervalTable.pdf)
 - [grantj-re3 | How to memorise 7 major & 7 minor chords | 2023](https://github.com/grantj-re3/MusiCalzone/blob/master/theory/7Major7MinorTriads.md)


## Piano Sauce - Sam Brown

1. [Play Any Lead Sheet (playlist) | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLvmY9Yv_ZjZF87uO3sl6qLCANasrYLsOM)

1. [The Easy Way to Play Melodies With Chords | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SBQoQL1lqcU)

1. [How To Learn Piano as Fast as Humanly Possible | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VZDmmAhQobY) ... The principles of practice
   - Principle I: How to make muscle memory
     * Play it right -> Correct muscle memory -> Get better
     * Play it wrong -> Incorrect muscle memory -> Get worse
     * Feedback loop:  Action --[builds]--> Muscle memory --[affects]--> Action ...
       + To learn anything: Get it right more often than you get it wrong
       + Learn quickly by making zero mistakes
       + Even a relatively small number of mistakes can double the time it takes us to learn something
     * ***1st rule of effective practice: Make less mistakes***
       + Prioritise accuracy over speed
         - Start by ignoring timing completely
         - Later, use a metronome and start slow
         - Don't increase speed until ready
     * ***2nd rule: Don't gamble***
       + Stop and only continue when you are confident you are going to nail it
       + Mentally step back from what you're playing
       + Focus on stopping before mistakes
     * ***3rd rule: Fix every mistake immediately***
       + Constantly look out for mistakes
       + Stop and restart from the previous bar

   - Principle II: The power of sleep
     * Use it or lose it
     * Minimum of 10-15 minutes of daily practice for steady progress (but aim for at least 5 minutes)
     * ***4th rule: Practice every day***
       + Consolidates and protects existing skills
       + Builds the habit of daily practice
       + Makes it easier to sit down and get started
     * ***5th rule: Review, review, review***
       + Spend a short time practicing previous aspects before starting new material

   - Principle III: The Goldilocks Zone
     * ***Set practice at the right difficulty level.*** Not too easy and not too difficult.
     * Set the metronome speed so you can reliably play the bar/bars correctly.
     * Goldilocks Zone tasks:
       + Have to master a new skill
       + Can take advantage of feedback loop (see above)
     * ***To stay in the Goldilocks Zone you will need to modify the difficulty of the tasks.***
       + Section size
       + Hands separate
       + Phrasing
       + Speed
       + Dynamics
       + Technique
       + Improvisation complexity
