piano/Links_PianoLessonsBeginner.md, before:

# Beginner piano lessons and tips

Below you will find lessons and information for playing chords and popular music (without the need to read sheet music).
You will most likely still need to read simple *lyric and chord* notation. You can find links to
various piano chord charts [here](Links_PianoChordCharts.md) when you need them.


## Introduction for *complete* beginners

1. [Pianote - Lisa Witt | 7 Days To Learning Piano (Beginner Lesson) (video) | 2021](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bzNKQ2FkEJI)
   - Seven excellent lessons in 1 video
   - Goes from knowing nothing about the piano to playing "Imagine" by John Lennon
   - Does not cover any music reading or music theory
   - Links to the start time of each short lesson (within this long 26 minute video) are shown in the introductory text
     * Day 1: Keyboard familiarity 
     * Day 2: Play the five-finger scale
     * Day 3: Learn to play fifths
     * Day 4: Develop your hand independence
     * Day 5: Learn chords (triads)
     * Day 6: Play "Imagine" by John Lennon
     * Day 7: Get fancy!
   - Similar but shorter lesson: [*How To Play Piano (Your First Piano Lesson)* (video)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4__cIAvrWHw)

1. [MangoldProject - Assaf | Piano Lessons for Beginners (playlist) | c.2017-2022](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLP9cbwDiLzdL6IS4-rmzR42ghq3T56XnK)
   - Nine excellent, structured beginner lessons
   - Covering a wide range of topics including chord inversions and sustain pedal
   - Does not cover any music reading or music theory
   - [Piano Lessons for Beginners: Part 1 - Getting Started! Learn some simple chords (video)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=827jmswqnEA)
   - [Piano Lessons for Beginners: Part 2 - Interesting chord accompaniment patterns (video)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hTmjb9CtsTQ)
   - [Piano Lessons for Beginners: Part 3 - More important chords you should know (video)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PeYSesLA5K4)
   - [Piano Lessons for Beginners: Part 4 - What About the Left Hand? (video)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZD_sAWAlWq0)
   - [Piano Lessons for Beginners: Part 5 - "Strumming" on the Piano? (video)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rUqKWy9SvhI)
   - [Piano Lessons for Beginners: Part 6 - Chord, Inversions and Voice Leading (video)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F1Y-T_RsRWs)
   - [Piano Lessons for Beginners: Part 7 - Sustain Pedal Tips & Tricks (video)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4J0X1HRMiCE)
   - [3 ESSENTIAL Exercises for Beginning Pianists (video)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zOUpQwGwUlw)
   - [How to Play Piano Ballads: 10 Tips from Beginner to Master (video)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1OeruRTcYWA)

1. [Become a Piano Superhuman - Zach Evans | How to Play Piano: Day 1 - EASY First Lesson for Beginners (video) | 2022](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SXQ_wlbWog)
   - Many of his videos recommend that we subscribe to get free PDF/info referenced in the video.


## Posture and hand position

1. [Piano Teaching Pros - Janci Bronson | Piano Basics: Proper Piano Body Posture and Hand Posture (video) | 2021](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2mxlG5bzcyQ)

1. [Pianist Magazine - Tim Stein | Basics of Playing Piano: Seating and Posture (1) (video) | 2013](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=E_70ezPjaUw)

1. [Pianist Magazine - Tim Stein | Basics of Playing the Piano: Hand Shape and Hand Position (2) (video) | 2013](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_6y7MPW_Ek)

1. [Pianote - Lisa Witt | Proper Posture At The Piano (video) | 2018](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=E8Do4oxTJ1k)

1. [Pianote - Lisa Witt | Proper Hand Posture At The Piano (video) | 2018](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rZznie6UU_o)

1. [Yamaha | How to Play the Piano: Correct Posture When Playing the Piano | c.2020](https://www.yamaha.com/en/musical_instrument_guide/piano/play/play002.html)


## Playlists

1. [Creative Piano Academy - Josef Sykora | Piano Lessons For Beginners (playlist) | c.2016-2022](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLhmvEMFe19DsCFuu9lW4gDDIad3gAeZR7)
1. [Creative Piano Academy - Josef Sykora | Piano Patterns - A Collection of Beautiful Melodic Piano Patterns to Try (playlist) | c.2018-2022](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLhmvEMFe19Ds0G626gOdWnV3_4OLNv4aW)

1. [Pianote - Lisa Witt, et al. | Play Piano With Lisa (playlist) | c.2019-2022](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLfM8ivjJ-rKVcDd611OMn7sPH-tjOhl6D)
1. [Pianote - Lisa Witt, et al. | Play Beautiful Piano Music (playlist) | c.2017-2023](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLfM8ivjJ-rKW6YDSgcNOGt3pjtkwHBAAb)
   - Lisa's videos often have introductory text which links to an explanatory web page, sheet music or chord progressions

1. [Pianist Magazine - Tim Stein | Basics of Playing the Piano: Tim Stein Series | 2013-2014](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLR5ap-u8E6tqlTZ27aszg2aiLRsw_gskc)
   - 18 short (4-8 minute) videos covering the basics of playing
   - Although Tim's target audience is probably students who play classical music and can read music, I feel almost
     all of the tips in this playlist are applicable to students who intend to only play popular music and chords
   - Topics include:
     * posture
     * hand shape and position
     * warm up exercises
     * strengthening the left hand
     * slurs
     * the thumb

1. [Become a Piano Superhuman - Zach Evans | Piano Lessons for Beginners (playlist) | c.2018-2022](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLXufPPxby9p4t8orGchxrlyKOUYwml36_)
   - Many of Zach's videos recommend that we subscribe to get free PDF/info referenced in the video.


## Hand independence

1. [Creative Piano Academy - Josef Sykora | Playing piano with both hands: 3 SIMPLE hand coordination exercises [Hand Independence] (video) | 2017](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CAeq494P5dM)

1. [Creative Piano Academy - Josef Sykora | A FUN Hand Independence Exercise For Piano | Lockdown #7 (video) | 2020](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TpVBHAbpeAM)

1. [Pianist Magazine - Tim Stein | Basics of Playing Piano: Hand and Finger Independence (6) (video) | 2013](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jzDvkAuIhvE)

1. [Pianote - Lisa Witt | Piano Hand Independence For Beginners (video) | 2019](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ngc0VUe-LV0)

1. [Pianote - Lisa Witt | 5 Days To Mastering Piano Hand Independence (video) | 2021](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AKEHb08ztlY)

1. [Pianote - Cassi Falk | Hand Independence Bootcamp - Piano Lesson (video) | 2019](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9XIVncmKdng)
   - Beginner to advanced
   - Exercises:
     * touch
     * dynamics
     * balance
     * movement
     * rhythm

1. [Become a Piano Superhuman - Zach Evans | Piano Hand Independence Exercises (for Beginners) (video) | 2021](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=G78DQpEDDWE)


## Excercises

1. [Creative Piano Academy - Josef Sykora | The Top 5 Piano Exercises For Beginners (video) | 2017](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tQh3-WBzaKY)
   - The 4th exercise is the 1-5-6-4 chord progression. Although his right hand moves to different chord positions, his left hand stays
     in the same position whilst playing the 1-5-6-4 bass notes.

1. [Pianote - Lisa Witt | Beautiful (And Easy) Left-Hand Arpeggios (video) | 2020](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JZDPI2S4KDw)
   - One left hand arpeggio pattern
   - Use the left hand *wrist pivot* to extend the arpeggio more than one octave

1. [Pianote - Sangah Noona | Beautiful and Simple Piano Arpeggios (Beginner Tutorial) (video) | 2022](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oFmQJnvtZd4)
   - One arpeggio pattern for both hands
   - Used in the chord progression: C Dm/C Em/C F/C C

1. [Pianote - Lisa Witt | 10 Minute Arpeggio Practice (Beginner Piano Lesson) (video) | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tI-NSic82ic)
   - More information including backing track is [here](https://www.pianote.com/blog/10-minute-arpeggio-practice-in-f-sharp-minor/)
     * Section A: F#m – D – A – C#
     * Section B: D – Dm – A – C#

1. [Pianote - Sam Vesely | Learn Arpeggio MAGIC! (Beginner Piano Lesson) (video) | 2021](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_Jt2gJl-d0c)
   - Two hand arpeggio patterns to improve your dexterity
   - 1st: Pitter patter pattern with hand crossover
   - 2nd: Mind bender
   - 3rd: Dreamscape with hand crossover
   - How to practice:
     * slowly
     * with metronome
     * patiently

1. [Pianote - Lisa Witt | Beautiful Arpeggio Patterns for Beginners (Piano Lesson) (video) | 2020](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hMZXQ87OeuU)
   - This sounds very nice.
   - Zach Evans has an almost identical version with the same title (link below). He adds some extra points.

1. [Become a Piano Superhuman - Zach Evans | Beautiful Arpeggio Patterns for Beginners (Easy!!) (video) | 2021](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hkYYAsURYGU)
   - Almost identical to the Pianote video with the same title but this one:
     * shows the chord diagrams
     * adds alternative chord variations
     * adds a link about how to how to play smoothly (the "Steam Iron Method"; link below)


## Accompaniment patterns

1. [Creative Piano Academy - Josef Sykora | 5 Right Hand Patterns That Turn Beginners Into Pros (video) | 2022](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w3UZHMlWF7U)
   - The introductory text has a link to the sheet music for each of the 5 patterns
   - 1st: The Broken Chord
     * Pattern: Bottom-middle-top-middle
     * Used in Someone Like You by Adele
     * Right hand chord progression: C G Am F
       + C chord:  C E G E | C E G E
       + G chord:  B D G D | B D G D (first inversion)
       + Am chord: A C E C | A C E C
       + F chord:  A C F C | A C F C (first inversion)
   - 2nd: The Classical
     * Pattern: Bottom-top-middle-top
     * Right hand chord progression: C G/C F/C G/C C
       + C chord:  C G E G | C G E G
       + G chord:  B G D G | B G D G (first inversion)
       + F chord:  A F C F | A F C F (first inversion)
       + G chord:  B G D G | B G D G (first inversion)
   - 3rd: The John Lennon
     * Used in Imagine by John Lennon and The Last Resort by the Eagles
     * Pattern: Middle and top together, followed by bottom
     * *Spend the most time on this pattern*
     * Right hand chord progression: F-2nd-inversion C G-1st-inversion Am
   - 4th: The Half-Half
     * Pattern: Middle-bottom - middle-bottom - middle-bottom - middle-bottom (do not play the top note at all)
     * Often played fairly fast with the sustain pedal
     * Right hand chord progression: C Em G F
   - 5th: The All-Rounder
     * Pattern:
       + Beat 1: All 3 notes
       + Beat 2: Rest
       + Beat 3: Middle and top together
       + Beat 4: Bottom
     * Right hand chord progression: F-2nd-inversion C G-1st-inversion Am

1. [Creative Piano Academy - Josef Sykora | 5 Piano Accompaniment Patterns YOU SHOULD KNOW - Piano Lesson (video) | 2022](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rn1ZejMbDR0)
   - Left hand patterns
   - The later patterns may be unsuitable for a complete beginner

1. [Pianote - Lisa Witt | Left Hand Arpeggio Patterns (Piano Lesson) (video) | 2019](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=q97ZyiBh_pw)
   - Four left hand arpeggio patterns for accompaniment
   - 1st: Broken arpeggio
   - 2nd: Rockin' fifths
   - 3rd: Spa arpeggio
   - 4th: Make the third the highest note (1 5 ^3 5 ^3 5)

1. [Pianote - Sangah Noona | Walking Bass line Piano Tutorial (Lesson PDF Included!) (video) | 2022](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Z5_ZQvr1d7w)

1. [Pianote - Lisa Witt | 3 Essential Arpeggios (Beginner Piano Lesson) (video) | 2022](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rmlI_7LgeHM)
   - 1st: 1-3-5-^1-5-3
   - 2nd: Used in Clocks by Coldplay: top-middle-bottom; top-middle-bottom; top-middle
   - 3rd: 1-5-^1 (or 1-5-^1-5-^1-5-^1-5)
   - Extra pattern: Similar to the longer pattern 3 above, but with inverted chords


## Sustain pedal

1. [Creative Piano Academy - Josef Sykora | Sustain Pedal - SIMPLE exercise gets you using the piano sustain pedal... NOW (video) | 2017](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=N3yS7pG1MGQ)

1. [Creative Piano Academy - Josef Sykora | Easily Fix This Sustain Pedal Mistake EVERY Beginner Makes | Lockdown #5 (video) | 2020](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EYx9vJaW9yc)

1. [Pianote - Lisa Witt | Sound Instantly Better On The Piano (Sustain Pedal) (video) | 2020](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=J2JjkRpi35Y)


## Speed techniques

1. [Pianote - Lisa Witt | Piano Speed Drills: How to Play Faster with Accuracy (video) | 2019](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZPdvWlRbQl0)

1. [Become a Piano Superhuman - Zach Evans | 4 Steps to become FAST & STEADY on PIANO [The Steam Iron Method] (video) | 2021](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6em7g1NwOgE)


## Chord progressions

1. [Become a Piano Superhuman - Zach Evans | Best Piano Chord Progression for Beginners (by FAR) (video) | 2018](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=X0Am-9rDeEk)
1. [Become a Piano Superhuman - Zach Evans | Learn 4 Chords - Quickly Play Hundreds of Songs! [EASY VERSION] (video) | 2019](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1D3aWUx771A)
   - The chords are a bit of a fudge to make playing easier
   - Good rhythm patterns

Commit message:

Add links to Jazer Lee piano videos

piano/Links_PianoLessonsBeginner.md, after:

# Beginner piano lessons and tips

Below you will find lessons and information for playing chords and popular music (without the need to read sheet music).
You will most likely still need to read simple *lyric and chord* notation. You can find links to
various piano chord charts [here](Links_PianoChordCharts.md) when you need them.


## Introduction for *complete* beginners

1. [Pianote - Lisa Witt | 7 Days To Learning Piano (Beginner Lesson) (video) | 2021](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bzNKQ2FkEJI)
   - Seven excellent lessons in 1 video
   - Goes from knowing nothing about the piano to playing "Imagine" by John Lennon
   - Does not cover any music reading or music theory
   - Links to the start time of each short lesson (within this long 26 minute video) are shown in the introductory text
     * Day 1: Keyboard familiarity 
     * Day 2: Play the five-finger scale
     * Day 3: Learn to play fifths
     * Day 4: Develop your hand independence
     * Day 5: Learn chords (triads)
     * Day 6: Play "Imagine" by John Lennon
     * Day 7: Get fancy!
   - Similar but shorter lesson: [*How To Play Piano (Your First Piano Lesson)* (video)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4__cIAvrWHw)

1. [MangoldProject - Assaf | Piano Lessons for Beginners (playlist) | c.2017-2022](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLP9cbwDiLzdL6IS4-rmzR42ghq3T56XnK)
   - Nine excellent, structured beginner lessons
   - Covering a wide range of topics including chord inversions and sustain pedal
   - Does not cover any music reading or music theory
   - [Piano Lessons for Beginners: Part 1 - Getting Started! Learn some simple chords (video)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=827jmswqnEA)
   - [Piano Lessons for Beginners: Part 2 - Interesting chord accompaniment patterns (video)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hTmjb9CtsTQ)
   - [Piano Lessons for Beginners: Part 3 - More important chords you should know (video)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PeYSesLA5K4)
   - [Piano Lessons for Beginners: Part 4 - What About the Left Hand? (video)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZD_sAWAlWq0)
   - [Piano Lessons for Beginners: Part 5 - "Strumming" on the Piano? (video)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rUqKWy9SvhI)
   - [Piano Lessons for Beginners: Part 6 - Chord, Inversions and Voice Leading (video)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F1Y-T_RsRWs)
   - [Piano Lessons for Beginners: Part 7 - Sustain Pedal Tips & Tricks (video)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4J0X1HRMiCE)
   - [3 ESSENTIAL Exercises for Beginning Pianists (video)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zOUpQwGwUlw)
   - [How to Play Piano Ballads: 10 Tips from Beginner to Master (video)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1OeruRTcYWA)

1. [Become a Piano Superhuman - Zach Evans | How to Play Piano: Day 1 - EASY First Lesson for Beginners (video) | 2022](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SXQ_wlbWog)
   - Many of his videos recommend that we subscribe to get free PDF/info referenced in the video.


## Posture and hand position

1. [Piano Teaching Pros - Janci Bronson | Piano Basics: Proper Piano Body Posture and Hand Posture (video) | 2021](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2mxlG5bzcyQ)

1. [Pianist Magazine - Tim Stein | Basics of Playing Piano: Seating and Posture (1) (video) | 2013](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=E_70ezPjaUw)

1. [Pianist Magazine - Tim Stein | Basics of Playing the Piano: Hand Shape and Hand Position (2) (video) | 2013](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_6y7MPW_Ek)

1. [Pianote - Lisa Witt | Proper Posture At The Piano (video) | 2018](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=E8Do4oxTJ1k)

1. [Pianote - Lisa Witt | Proper Hand Posture At The Piano (video) | 2018](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rZznie6UU_o)

1. [Yamaha | How to Play the Piano: Correct Posture When Playing the Piano | c.2020](https://www.yamaha.com/en/musical_instrument_guide/piano/play/play002.html)


## Playlists

1. [Creative Piano Academy - Josef Sykora | Piano Lessons For Beginners (playlist) | c.2016-2022](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLhmvEMFe19DsCFuu9lW4gDDIad3gAeZR7)
1. [Creative Piano Academy - Josef Sykora | Piano Patterns - A Collection of Beautiful Melodic Piano Patterns to Try (playlist) | c.2018-2022](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLhmvEMFe19Ds0G626gOdWnV3_4OLNv4aW)

1. [Pianote - Lisa Witt, et al. | Play Piano With Lisa (playlist) | c.2019-2022](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLfM8ivjJ-rKVcDd611OMn7sPH-tjOhl6D)
1. [Pianote - Lisa Witt, et al. | Play Beautiful Piano Music (playlist) | c.2017-2023](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLfM8ivjJ-rKW6YDSgcNOGt3pjtkwHBAAb)
   - Lisa's videos often have introductory text which links to an explanatory web page, sheet music or chord progressions

1. [Learn Piano with Jazer Lee | Key Practice Strategies (playlist) | c.2017-2022](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLMawC1bdeZRE2meimmzBAun-4zQyXBzNA)
1. [Learn Piano with Jazer Lee | Piano Exercises To Try Now (playlist) | c.2021-2022](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLMawC1bdeZREj5r6ARjWXlrheSwvFtc4W)
1. [Learn Piano with Jazer Lee | Tutorials and Tips! (playlist) | c.2017-2023](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLMawC1bdeZRHB4EYjsMDmgCDhBpCIvD3o)

1. [Pianist Magazine - Tim Stein | Basics of Playing the Piano: Tim Stein Series | 2013-2014](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLR5ap-u8E6tqlTZ27aszg2aiLRsw_gskc)
   - 18 short (4-8 minute) videos covering the basics of playing
   - Although Tim's target audience is probably students who play classical music and can read music, I feel almost
     all of the tips in this playlist are applicable to students who intend to only play popular music and chords
   - Topics include:
     * posture
     * hand shape and position
     * warm up exercises
     * strengthening the left hand
     * slurs
     * the thumb

1. [Become a Piano Superhuman - Zach Evans | Piano Lessons for Beginners (playlist) | c.2018-2022](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLXufPPxby9p4t8orGchxrlyKOUYwml36_)
   - Many of Zach's videos recommend that we subscribe to get free PDF/info referenced in the video.


## Hand independence

1. [Creative Piano Academy - Josef Sykora | Playing piano with both hands: 3 SIMPLE hand coordination exercises [Hand Independence] (video) | 2017](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CAeq494P5dM)

1. [Creative Piano Academy - Josef Sykora | A FUN Hand Independence Exercise For Piano | Lockdown #7 (video) | 2020](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TpVBHAbpeAM)

1. [Pianist Magazine - Tim Stein | Basics of Playing Piano: Hand and Finger Independence (6) (video) | 2013](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jzDvkAuIhvE)

1. [Pianote - Lisa Witt | Piano Hand Independence For Beginners (video) | 2019](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ngc0VUe-LV0)

1. [Pianote - Lisa Witt | 5 Days To Mastering Piano Hand Independence (video) | 2021](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AKEHb08ztlY)

1. [Pianote - Cassi Falk | Hand Independence Bootcamp - Piano Lesson (video) | 2019](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9XIVncmKdng)
   - Beginner to advanced
   - Exercises:
     * touch
     * dynamics
     * balance
     * movement
     * rhythm

1. [Learn Piano with Jazer Lee | Play with 2 Hands on Piano (Practice these 10 Easy Exercises) (video) | 2021](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VXD0p_g_UTg)
   - Levels 9 and 10 Polyrhythm (3 against 2) are presented in more detail [here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OXZsZIEWlbA)

1. [Learn Piano with Jazer Lee | Play with 2 Hands on Piano (Practice these 10 New Exercises) Part 2 (video) | 2021](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZgKCUEYR74M)

1. [Become a Piano Superhuman - Zach Evans | Piano Hand Independence Exercises (for Beginners) (video) | 2021](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=G78DQpEDDWE)


## Excercises

1. [Creative Piano Academy - Josef Sykora | The Top 5 Piano Exercises For Beginners (video) | 2017](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tQh3-WBzaKY)
   - The 4th exercise is the 1-5-6-4 chord progression. Although his right hand moves to different chord positions, his left hand stays
     in the same position whilst playing the 1-5-6-4 bass notes.

1. [Pianote - Lisa Witt | Beautiful (And Easy) Left-Hand Arpeggios (video) | 2020](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JZDPI2S4KDw)
   - One left hand arpeggio pattern
   - Use the left hand *wrist pivot* to extend the arpeggio more than one octave

1. [Pianote - Sangah Noona | Beautiful and Simple Piano Arpeggios (Beginner Tutorial) (video) | 2022](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oFmQJnvtZd4)
   - One arpeggio pattern for both hands
   - Used in the chord progression: C Dm/C Em/C F/C C

1. [Pianote - Lisa Witt | 10 Minute Arpeggio Practice (Beginner Piano Lesson) (video) | 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tI-NSic82ic)
   - More information including backing track is [here](https://www.pianote.com/blog/10-minute-arpeggio-practice-in-f-sharp-minor/)
     * Section A: F#m – D – A – C#
     * Section B: D – Dm – A – C#

1. [Pianote - Sam Vesely | Learn Arpeggio MAGIC! (Beginner Piano Lesson) (video) | 2021](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_Jt2gJl-d0c)
   - Two hand arpeggio patterns to improve your dexterity
   - 1st: Pitter patter pattern with hand crossover
   - 2nd: Mind bender
   - 3rd: Dreamscape with hand crossover
   - How to practice:
     * slowly
     * with metronome
     * patiently

1. [Pianote - Lisa Witt | Beautiful Arpeggio Patterns for Beginners (Piano Lesson) (video) | 2020](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hMZXQ87OeuU)
   - This sounds very nice.
   - Zach Evans has an almost identical version with the same title (link below). He adds some extra points.

1. [Become a Piano Superhuman - Zach Evans | Beautiful Arpeggio Patterns for Beginners (Easy!!) (video) | 2021](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hkYYAsURYGU)
   - Almost identical to the Pianote video with the same title but this one:
     * shows the chord diagrams
     * adds alternative chord variations
     * adds a link about how to how to play smoothly (the "Steam Iron Method"; link below)


## Accompaniment patterns

1. [Creative Piano Academy - Josef Sykora | 5 Right Hand Patterns That Turn Beginners Into Pros (video) | 2022](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w3UZHMlWF7U)
   - The introductory text has a link to the sheet music for each of the 5 patterns
   - 1st: The Broken Chord
     * Pattern: Bottom-middle-top-middle
     * Used in Someone Like You by Adele
     * Right hand chord progression: C G Am F
       + C chord:  C E G E | C E G E
       + G chord:  B D G D | B D G D (first inversion)
       + Am chord: A C E C | A C E C
       + F chord:  A C F C | A C F C (first inversion)
   - 2nd: The Classical
     * Pattern: Bottom-top-middle-top
     * Right hand chord progression: C G/C F/C G/C C
       + C chord:  C G E G | C G E G
       + G chord:  B G D G | B G D G (first inversion)
       + F chord:  A F C F | A F C F (first inversion)
       + G chord:  B G D G | B G D G (first inversion)
   - 3rd: The John Lennon
     * Used in Imagine by John Lennon and The Last Resort by the Eagles
     * Pattern: Middle and top together, followed by bottom
     * *Spend the most time on this pattern*
     * Right hand chord progression: F-2nd-inversion C G-1st-inversion Am
   - 4th: The Half-Half
     * Pattern: Middle-bottom - middle-bottom - middle-bottom - middle-bottom (do not play the top note at all)
     * Often played fairly fast with the sustain pedal
     * Right hand chord progression: C Em G F
   - 5th: The All-Rounder
     * Pattern:
       + Beat 1: All 3 notes
       + Beat 2: Rest
       + Beat 3: Middle and top together
       + Beat 4: Bottom
     * Right hand chord progression: F-2nd-inversion C G-1st-inversion Am

1. [Creative Piano Academy - Josef Sykora | 5 Piano Accompaniment Patterns YOU SHOULD KNOW - Piano Lesson (video) | 2022](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rn1ZejMbDR0)
   - Left hand patterns
   - The later patterns may be unsuitable for a complete beginner

1. [Pianote - Lisa Witt | Left Hand Arpeggio Patterns (Piano Lesson) (video) | 2019](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=q97ZyiBh_pw)
   - Four left hand arpeggio patterns for accompaniment
   - 1st: Broken arpeggio
   - 2nd: Rockin' fifths
   - 3rd: Spa arpeggio
   - 4th: Make the third the highest note (1 5 ^3 5 ^3 5)

1. [Pianote - Sangah Noona | Walking Bass line Piano Tutorial (Lesson PDF Included!) (video) | 2022](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Z5_ZQvr1d7w)

1. [Pianote - Lisa Witt | 3 Essential Arpeggios (Beginner Piano Lesson) (video) | 2022](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rmlI_7LgeHM)
   - 1st: 1-3-5-^1-5-3
   - 2nd: Used in Clocks by Coldplay: top-middle-bottom; top-middle-bottom; top-middle
   - 3rd: 1-5-^1 (or 1-5-^1-5-^1-5-^1-5)
   - Extra pattern: Similar to the longer pattern 3 above, but with inverted chords


## Sustain pedal

1. [Creative Piano Academy - Josef Sykora | Sustain Pedal - SIMPLE exercise gets you using the piano sustain pedal... NOW (video) | 2017](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=N3yS7pG1MGQ)

1. [Creative Piano Academy - Josef Sykora | Easily Fix This Sustain Pedal Mistake EVERY Beginner Makes | Lockdown #5 (video) | 2020](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EYx9vJaW9yc)

1. [Pianote - Lisa Witt | Sound Instantly Better On The Piano (Sustain Pedal) (video) | 2020](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=J2JjkRpi35Y)

1. [Learn Piano with Jazer Lee | How To Use The Piano Pedal? Beginners Tutorial (video) | 2018](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lzbgr6H3BE0)


## Speed techniques

1. [Pianote - Lisa Witt | Piano Speed Drills: How to Play Faster with Accuracy (video) | 2019](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZPdvWlRbQl0)

1. [Become a Piano Superhuman - Zach Evans | 4 Steps to become FAST & STEADY on PIANO [The Steam Iron Method] (video) | 2021](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6em7g1NwOgE)


## Chord progressions

1. [Become a Piano Superhuman - Zach Evans | Best Piano Chord Progression for Beginners (by FAR) (video) | 2018](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=X0Am-9rDeEk)
1. [Become a Piano Superhuman - Zach Evans | Learn 4 Chords - Quickly Play Hundreds of Songs! [EASY VERSION] (video) | 2019](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1D3aWUx771A)
   - The chords are a bit of a fudge to make playing easier
   - Good rhythm patterns
